To the front.
All right, let's try this again.
Here we go.
All right.
Well welcome everybody.
Good to see you guys.
It's good to be back.
Getting the opportunity to speak
again with, uh, Nick being out
last week or assuming Nick being
in and me being out last week.
Um, but it's good to be here to be able
to share with you guys, um, this week
we're gonna be in Psalm chapter three.
Um, so if you wanna go ahead
and turn there, you can Psalm
chapter three and, um, we will,
um, jump in here in just a minute.
So let me ask this question.
Um, have you guys ever felt like
nothing is going right in your life?
It seems like you wake up and your tires.
Then you get your tire fixed.
And the next thing you know,
like some kid's sick, right.
And you gotta come home and then after
your kid's sick, then you realize
that, you know, something else is
broken at the house or you name it.
Right?
Like you, you feel like
you're the only one, sometimes
that things are going wrong.
And it seems like that.
No matter what everything's
working against you.
Um, and I would even say this, um, I tend
to be this person that is self defeated.
So even your own self, like you're just
really even frustrated with yourself.
Like you can't even be,
um, like positive thinking.
Um, and I can relate with you in that
the text that we're gonna deal with
today is gonna be talking about David.
who is dealing with a personal struggle.
And I'll give you a little bit
more details here in just a little
bit, but the reason why I wanted to
bring that up is just this thought.
At times when we are going
through difficult, th times we
struggle to keep the faith, right?
We struggle to keep having
faith, despite our circumstances.
And the truth is when we look around,
you may be a lot like me, the grass
always seems greener on the other side.
Anybody ever think about that?
Like that person, nothing ever goes.
That person seems to always have all
the money they need all the time off.
They need, you know,
their family's perfect.
Right.
They, they, I guarantee they never
fight their kids always listen.
Uh, again, I don't know if that's
you, but at times that's me where I
begin to think and go, man, there's
gotta be, uh, just this I'm the
only one with all these issues.
But truth is we're all broken.
We've all struggled.
We all have things that go wrong in life.
Whether, you know, we share them or not.
And I would just say this
there's some that are just
better at hiding it than others.
There's some people that just
seem like, man, it's always good.
You know, you ask 'em how are you doing?
Oh, it's great.
Great.
It seems like they're always joyful.
And, uh, maybe they are, but I
would say deep down inside, they're
struggling with something different
than maybe what you're struggling.
Um, and so let me just give you an example
why this is, is maybe a way that we, we
just tend to handle things differently.
Um, so my son's actually playing
football this year, tackle football.
Not that I've necessarily seen this, but
I, I was starting to think through this.
And there's times where those,
those coaches are pretty rough.
You ever had a football coaches
yell at you and scream at you to do
something because you did it wrong.
See, some kids respond
really well to that.
And some kids it demoralizes them.
Right.
But then you take that same kid that
gets yelled at that, that actually
just encourages them to do things.
And you have somebody that starts to pick
on 'em and that really frustrates them.
They can't handle when somebody picks
on 'em, but you take the other kid
that gets demoralized when somebody's
yelling at 'em, but a kid picks on 'em
and they can let it roll off their back.
Right.
What I would say is we're all different.
We all struggle with different things,
but it doesn't mean one person's better
than the other person, because they
struggle with it differently than you.
So I would just say this and maybe
something that you struggle with.
Somebody else doesn't and at
times, again, we look and we think,
man, they have a perfect life.
They don't have a struggling marriage.
They don't have struggling kids.
They don't have financial issues,
but the truth is, and in some
form of fashion, we're all broken.
We're all struggling.
Some of us are just better
at hiding it than others.
Some of us are better with
maybe walking through it.
And I think this text today will
challenge us with how David.
Was able to keep the faith
despite his circumstances.
So lemme just kind of catch
you up on where David is.
This is king David from the old
Testament, um, king David, most of
us probably know, but if you don't,
we're gonna kind of catch you up.
But in this text in Psalm three, he's
actually running from his son ABSM.
And how did David get to this point?
See, David was known as a
man after God's own heart.
If you were to just take
that title and go, man.
I wish like God would look at me
and say, Ben man, after God's own
heart, like that's a great title to.
And if you look early on in
David's story, most of us know
David and Goliath's story, right?
David was successful at a young age.
God had anointed him as the next king.
And it seemed like even as
David began to grow up, he was
always successful in battles.
And even when the odds were against
him, right when the king was against
him, king SA was against him.
It seemed like David always
just responded correctly.
Right.
There was the time where he
actually cut the robe of.
And he felt so bad about it.
He ran out and said, Hey,
you know, I am so sorry.
Like, it seemed like David had it
all together, but even David A.
King after God's own heart, made a
mistake and had a struggle in his life.
And this one was a pretty big struggle.
And most of you, again, may know the
story, but I'm gonna kind of catch you up.
David, uh, made a big mistake
by making one small mistake.
He used to be a king that would lead
his men out to battle and he chose.
To not go out to battle.
He actually chose to stay
at home and he got idle.
And when he got idle, he began to seek
fulfillment outside of the will of.
When we began to seek fulfillment
outside the will of God, he began to seek
another woman, and this is Beth Sheba.
Right.
And he began to, uh, he slept with
her, she got pregnant and David
goes, oh no, I made a big mistake.
So rather than admitting his mistake,
he tries to, you know, cover it up.
So he tries to get Bathsheba's husband
to come back and sleep with her so they
can kind of play it off as their child.
That didn't work.
Cuz he wouldn't do it.
Then he says, let's just kill him.
Right.
So then VA Juba's husband was
sent to the front of the lines
and he was killed in the.
And David married BA Sheba
and he thought, ah, good.
I covered it up.
But then a prophet came and he
called out David sins and David
recognized it and repented.
But even when David repented, it didn't
take away his consequences of his sin.
So when we're talking today, I just
wanna be clear when we're talking
this today, we're talking about
how difficult our circumstances
are and how we can have faith.
We're not just talking about how
we have difficult circumstances
because of our own sin.
That's David's story in this.
And that could be our story where our
sin has brought about consequences
of the, the things we have.
But for some of us, it could
just be the difficulties of life.
But I wanted you to know the
setting that David ends in.
Right?
What happened?
What were the consequences
of David's sins?
Uh, from obviously everything that he
had done was won the loss of his son.
And number two was his kingdom
would be taken from him.
And I wanna read this.
It says that God said to David,
your sword, the sword shall
never depart from your house.
I will rise up evil against you,
even from your own own household.
So, this is where we see David's son
had conspired against him and got
some of his, uh, people and some of
his friends to take over the kingdom.
And David had to run from
his son for his life.
So David went from being the king,
the God, or the man after God's
own heart, to running for his life.
And this is where we
pick up in Psalm three.
So I want to go ahead and jump in this
so we can all see how David kept the
faith, despite his dire circumstances.
So it says this in Psalm.
it says, Lord, how my foes have increased.
There are many who attack
me many say about me.
There is no help from him in God Salla,
but you Lord are a shield around me,
my glory, the one who lifts up my
head, I cry aloud to the Lord and he
answers me from his holy mountain.
Say I lie down and I sleep and I wake
up again because the Lord sustains me.
I will not be afraid of the thousands
of people who have taken their
stand against me on every side,
rise up, Lord, save me my God.
You strike all my enemies on the cheek.
And you break the teeth of the wicked
salvation, belongs to the Lord.
May your blessings beyond
your people, Salem.
Let's pray and invite God in today.
Lord Jesus.
We just pray Lord that you take this text.
You take Lord, um, our lives and
you begin to mold them together.
Lord, help us learn from king David
Lord, where he was in a desperate
and dire situation and Lord how
he kept the faith in how he was
reminded Lord of your faithfulness.
Lord.
I pray that we walk out here today
being reminded of that same thing,
Lord, that you are, God, you are good.
You are one that is with us, that
you'll never leave us nor forsake
us, that you will fight for us.
And that there is victory on
this other side of that fight.
So Lord, we pray all of
this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
So the first thing we're gonna see here is
how David responded to his circumstance.
The first thing we're gonna
see how David responded to his
circumstance was with a desperate.
again.
I, I, I think we all can relate on this.
When's the, the time you typically pray.
When do you typically pray when you
have, what was that when you're in
trouble, when you have a major need
now, again, some of you are probably
really spiritual and the most of the
time you pray just when life's great.
And I'm, I'm thankful that you
do, we should pray at all times.
But typically we relate with David when
our lives are in a dire situation, we
have a financial issue, a car issue, a
health issue, a family issue, you name it.
We are seeking the Lord.
Like me and Brit were
watching a movie last night.
And even most of the movies, it seems like
they have nothing that they care about.
God, there was a dire and desperate
situation and this guy's not even a
believer and he's like praying out to God,
God, if you're real, I really need you.
If you could show up now, it
seems that we all get that right.
We go to God, but let's see
how David goes to God with
this, with this desperate plea.
And so he says this, but
you no, excuse me, Lord.
How my foes increased.
There are many who attack me.
So David was not just dealing with the few
people and, and, and again, we can handle
circumstances where one thing goes wrong.
One person may not like us that's easy.
But what he was saying was there's not
just a few people who are against me.
There are many who are
increasing daily against me.
This was a king who had everybody for him.
It seemed like before he was over
everyone, everybody loved him.
He was a man after God's own heart.
And now there are all these people,
all these things that are going
against him every single day.
See he was.
So desperate for God to move.
He was in such a desperate place.
He felt alone.
Has anybody ever felt alone in a
certain situation where you feel
like nobody cares and it really
let's just go to the extent of it.
You feel like God doesn't care.
I mean, I think David's in this situation
where he is just, ah, he's just defeated.
He's lost everything.
And so I know all of us have probably
felt like that, right where we're
alone and we're defeated and, and
we feel like everybody's against.
and I begin to realize this is maybe
it's not everybody's against us.
And this is why it's so key.
It's maybe not people, but
it's the circumstances.
And I would even say that there is
an enemy out there that is trying
to deceive us this, trying to use
everything in our lives to think that
everyone's against us or everything
is against us, everything in life.
And this is why I remind
myself of Ephesians six, 12.
It says for our struggle is not
against flesh and blood, but against
the rulers against the authorities
against the cosmic powers of darkness
against evil, spiritual forces in.
So as a believer, and I wanna, I wanna
speak here as a believer, we have an
enemy that is trying to destroy the
work that God is doing in our lives.
And if he is trying to destroy
those things, he will use every
circumstance and every person.
And let me just go a little bit further,
which is where I tend to struggle.
Every thought that I have in my
mind to make it negative, to make
it think like, you know what.
Nobody cares.
Nothing's going right.
I don't have enough.
I'm never gonna make enough.
I'm never gonna be healthy enough.
I'm never gonna this.
Right.
And you begin to just self defeat.
See, I have to remember just like
David has to remember this situation.
We're gonna see this, that this is
the enemy trying to steal something
from us, trying to still joy from.
So there may be days that you believe
there's no hope or help for you in God.
And that's what we see here in verse
two, he says many say about me.
There is no help for him and God.
Imagine this king David, a
man after God's own heart.
And all these people are saying,
God can't even help him, man.
That is defeating.
So, whether we may even ask these
questions when we're going through
difficult circumstances, why me, God,
again, I asked the question earlier,
do you ever look around and go, the
grass is greener on the other side?
Why not?
Then they don't love Jesus.
Like I love Jesus.
They don't give, like I give,
they don't serve, like I serve.
So we begin to just ask those questions.
So here's the thing though.
And this is where I love how David
begins to build this up, whether
our own consequences of our sin
or just the sins of the world.
We may be going through these
feelings of defeat and loneliness,
but they're not from God.
Think back just like for David, right?
God forgave David, before all this stuff
happened, the forgiveness was already
given to David and he was dealing with
the consequences of his sins, but God
never left him in the midst of that.
So we can feel lonely in our battles.
And again, this doesn't mean that what
you're going through is a consequence
of your sin, but I wanna make this.
When we are going through battles in life,
they're a consequence of some thing, some
sin, why we are living in a broken world
that is full of sinful things that are
not necessarily because of your result,
but just the result of sin in general.
So in essence, everything that's going
on in our lives, the is a result of sin.
Just, just to be clear here,
but we sometimes feel lonely
as though God is not with us.
But we can't forget that godd has
promised not to leave her forakis
and this is what I love about this.
You, you see this little word at
the end of verse two at the end of
verse four, and at the end of verse
eight, it's called Salla where you
can say it a couple different ways.
Many, explain it this way.
Salla is a Hebrew word,
referring to a voluntary or
intentional pause for reflect.
An intentional pause for reflection.
So we're gonna look at it this way.
David is crying out to God.
I'm gonna read this again.
Lord, how my foes have increased.
There are many who attack
me many say about me.
There is no help for him in God.
And he begins to pause.
He begins to think on it and
he's thinking, man, is this true?
Is there no help for me in God?
And in this moment, David is
feeling everything you felt in those
moments when you felt defeated.
David is feeling those moments
where you feel like there is
no hope and there is no help.
He is pausing and reflecting on that.
But here's the beautiful part.
This pause to reflect allowed David to
reflect on truths that God had given him.
And so I wanna, I wanna continue
to repeat this because I
believe this is so important.
I feel like I'm my own worst.
The things I think on, I begin
to be a negative reflection.
Again, you may not be that person,
but I tend to do that, but our
lives are heading in the direction
of our strongest thoughts.
See, David's life could have taken one of
two turns at this moment, before we move
on, it could have taken a major downturn.
He could have rejected God and said, God,
I'm giving up because you have left me.
You've left me here.
My son is trying to destroy me.
He's taken the kingdom away from me.
I am done or.
David could reflect and remember
everything that God had done for him.
And that's just what David did.
So let's look at this.
How did David respond to his
circumstances with a desperate plea
and then with a powerful reminder?
So in verses three and four, it says,
but you Lord are a shield around
me, my glory, the one who lifts my
head, I cry aloud to the Lord and he
answers me from his holy mountain.
So you look at this in verse
three, but you, this is a
powerful transition by David.
It's really an about face, right?
It reminds me of second Corinthians five
17, where it says, therefore, if anyone
is in Christ, he has a new creation.
The old things have passed away.
See the new has come see David in
that moment, put his foot in the
sand and he did not go towards.
Running from God.
He did not go towards negative self
doubt and all these negative feelings.
He turned from it and
said, no, it's not true.
I do have a help.
And a hope from God.
He is a shield all around me.
The Lord is a shield.
What does that mean?
A shield is a protection or armor
defense, but as a verb, it means
to protect or guard or defend.
So think about this God for David.
Was a shield or a guard all
around him while his enemies
were trying to defeat him.
When, when we see God's word and we
see that God is giving David this
shield, we can sit there and know
this, that God has given you a shield.
God has been your protector and
will continue to protect you.
And here is the greatest
part, and this is what I love.
Every one of us have weaknesses.
You guys have weaknesses.
There's things.
You're not good.
It seems like, again, I tell you
mine's, mine's negative talk, right?
When we're talking about our
circumstances, it's the negative
talk for you and maybe other things,
but that weak part that I struggle
with, God's a shield there too.
God's not just a shield where I'm strong.
He's actually a shield
everywhere, everywhere.
And I realized where I am weak.
He is strong and see David, a
man after God's own heart needed,
God's shield all around him to
protect him for all of his enemies.
We need that same thing.
David was now remembering
that God was that shield.
Think about this.
David had been through many
battles and been successful.
The shield that God provided in
those battles is the same shield that
God was providing in this battle.
So I, I want to challenge you in this.
I don't know.
And I, I really don't know if God
has ever showed up for you before and
has been a powerful shift for you.
But if he has, if God has showed up
financially, if God has showed up
from a health standpoint, if God's
showed up and has given you peace or
patience in some circumstance, that
is something you can clinging to.
That is something you can grab hold of, to
remember in the difficult circumstances,
when you feel like everybody's against
you or yourself is against you.
And you can know that God.
Is a shield and a protector.
He is one that has hope.
He is one that help can help
us overcome these situations.
And when we begin to look at the
root of it to overcome the enemy,
the enemy wants to still kill and
destroy anything good in your life.
Why?
Because it will cause you to doubt
in your faith, but God is good.
God is faithful.
And this is exactly what David.
And it says this not only is God his
shield, but it says that God is his glory.
What does that mean?
That God is our praise or was his praise?
He's one to be worshiped, a place
to trust and to have faith in.
See, I can only worship something
that I believe in and I trust in.
So what David is doing here is he's
beginning to say this, my glory,
my worth my praise, my trust.
My faith is in God alone.
I need this shield around me.
And then he begins to speak about
something that I think really
speaks directly to my heart.
Um, right.
The back end of verse three, it
says he is not only my glory, but
he is the one that lifts my head up.
Guys.
There are days where it feels
like my head is always hanging.
I feel so defeated.
You know, this, anybody ever played
in a sports sporting competition and
you lost, what do you typically do?
What's the first thing you do.
Hang your head in defeat.
You were done.
I remember.
Let me just give you a great example here.
I remember whenever I was in high school,
my grandparents drove, I say a decent
way to come see me play soccer and we
lost the game and I wouldn't talk to my
grandparents, hung my head walked off from
them and they were pretty disappointed to
me cuz I was pretty much acting like a.
right.
But in those moments, guys,
we are hanging our head.
When, when we feel defeated, when we feel
like our circumstances are difficult,
we hang our head, but God says this.
He is the one who lifts our head.
See, I, I I'm envisioning this
Psalm as Dave is writing it.
And I, I, I love the picture.
David starts down on his niece.
He starts with his head
bowed and his eyes closed.
And he is crying out to God because
he is casting his cares upon the Lord.
And I believe in verse three
is when David begins to sit up.
And when David begins to, to lift
his head up and recognize that
the Lord is a shield around him.
And by the end of this Psalm, I
believe David is standing up and
he is praising and worshiping the
Lord because of what God has done
to him, for him and through him.
See, that's the God we serve.
Because I look at this and I
need to be reminded just as
David is that God is for us.
God is for us.
Even in our most Dickel
circumstances, God is for us.
So he lifts our head up.
He reminds us that he is the sustainer,
the provider and the protector.
And then we see in verse four, David
says, I cry out loud to the Lord.
Yes, men, you can cry.
Did, did you know that men, you can cry.
Now you may think this is just
like a scream, but no, I believe
this is a desperate cry to the.
I crowd to the Lord and he
answers me from his holy mountain.
Let me ask this question.
How confident are you that
God hears your prayers?
Are you confident?
There's times I'm not.
Can, can I sit with you?
There's times I pray and
I'm like, you don't hear it.
You don't care.
So if you feel that way, welcome to
the club, but how do we overcome that?
How do we overcome that by seeing
when God does hear prayers by
remembering when God did provide,
I I'm just gonna spitball here.
Courtney, Ryan, God provided got
a job now that was a long prayer
and a long, difficult road.
Right.
But God answered.
Remember that when you're going through
difficult circumstances, remember
that Doug, both cars breaking down.
God provide you guys got a new car.
God provided you were
desperate in that situation.
I can go around this room.
I don't know all y'all so deep,
but I can continue to go around
this room and you guys will
remember and sorry to call you two.
I just, this came to mind.
Okay.
But God will use those circumstances.
When you cried out and you're
saying, God, show up God, show up.
Here's what God does.
God hears us from his holy mountain.
God is not a God that sits up there
and desires for life to suck for us.
I'm sorry for using that word.
God, isn't that God, he doesn't
look down and say, I hope your life.
Isn't good.
You know what God is.
God is compassionate.
God, God is so compassionate
that he fills your needs before
you even know you need them.
He knows it.
And if God knows you have that
need, he desires for you to meet it.
But at times you wonder
why did it take so long?
Why does it happen to happen this way?
And I'll just tell you this until we leave
this broken world, we'll never experience
a perfect time for what we would desire.
Right.
But God's, timing's perfect because
he's not only here to redeem you.
He's here to redeem the whole world and
he's here to redeem the whole world.
Sometimes your longer suffering is
not for your benefit necessarily, but
for the benefit of others around you
see somebody needs to hear that today.
Somebody needs to hear that
sometimes the longer that you're
suffering and struggling is not
necessarily for your benefit.
Because it would be better for you to
get it over with, but for somebody else's
so that they can see Jesus work through
your suffering because they're suffering.
And they can know just like
David, that God was present.
Even in the midst of all the enemies
around him, he was a shield guys.
This is difficult at times to
understand our circumstances.
But David reminds us that
God does hear our prayers.
When we humbly come before God and
prayer, we know that our prayers are.
We know that they're heard.
We can know that God is again, not
sitting by enjoying that we're suffering.
No, God is compassionate.
So David went to God and
prayer with confidence.
And when we pray, God's promises over our
lives, we can know without a shadow of
doubt that God will hear us God desires
to, to work in and through our lives
to use every circumstance for our good,
his glory, for the benefit of others.
See, there's been moments in my life where
I've sat there and I've cried out to the
Lord and I've asked that same question.
You've asked God, what are you doing?
What are you doing?
And at times I feel like God is
silent, but what do I keep doing?
I remember how God has provided over
and over and over again for our family,
for our church, for those around us.
And I go, you know what,
my God hurt me in that.
now he may not be answering right
now the way I want, but God is
doing something in this circumstance
for me, for those around us.
So here's my encouragement to you.
Just like David cried out to God.
Just like I talked about that
at times I cry out to God
and I'm getting angry at God.
Do you know that God can handle that?
It's okay to be real with God.
You wanna know why?
Because if you don't voice it,
He already knows your heart.
He already knows.
If you're angry, just tell
him out loud he can handle it.
Why is that good?
Because if you don't say it out
loud, you begin to get in your head
and your life is heading in the
direction of your strongest thoughts.
And when you begin to think
on that, God doesn't care.
You're gonna take the wrong step.
See David took the right one.
You're gonna take the wrong one.
You're gonna end it verse two, and
you're gonna go, you know what?
There is no help for me
from God, God doesn't care.
Forget this.
But no, no, no, no.
Tell God, get it out.
Tell a friend, let them encourage you.
Let them build you up.
Don't let the enemy win.
And this is where we see David setting.
That great example he is being real.
So at the end of verse four,
we see the word Sayah again.
So David begins to pause again, to
take a moment to remember the truths
he was rejecting lies from verse two.
That there was no help for him.
And he was proclaiming truths.
So he began to think on those
truths to give him peace and
rest again, picture this.
David started out on his knees
with his head bowed down.
He is desperate before the Lord.
He begins to sit up his head
raises up and I begin, this is
in verse five, going forward.
We begin to see David get up off
the ground and begin to worship.
So how did David respond to
circumstances with a desperate
plea, with a powerful reminder
and with victory over his enemies?
So let's see how this
works out in verse five.
It says I lie down to sleep and I wake
up again because the Lord sustains me.
Anybody struggle to sleep because
of all the stress in their life.
Okay.
Maybe I'm the only one, right?
We, we struggle to go to sleep and
we wake up in the middle of the night
and we're trying to solve all the
problems and then we wake up exhausted
and then it just runs the rest of.
see David gets this, but David
said after he began to proclaim
these truths, he said, I lie down
to sleep and I wake up again and I
realize that the Lord sustained me.
See, you wanna know why God created rest
because he had to take something out
of our hands where we wouldn't try to
figure out out how to solve problems,
because at the moment of rest that's
when only God can work and you can't.
So every time you take a nap, which,
so that means it's, it's a blessing
to take a nap, take more naps.
I mean, it's, let's God
more control your life.
I'll take one this
afternoon just to prove it.
Okay.
But when we are sleeping, we can't control
anything and God controls everything.
So we see here that David laid down when
he had all this stress, he's wondering,
are they gonna come and attack me?
Are they gonna find me?
And he says, he wakes up and the Lord.
Sustain me.
He found rest in God's Providence.
He was able to wake up knowing that
the Lord would defeat his enemies.
No matter if they were all around
him, God would defeat his enemies.
Even the unknown circumstances
that we have in our lives.
I'm telling you this, there are so
many things to fear in our lives, but
God has not given us a spirit of fear.
He's given us a spirit of power
and love and a sound mind, and
we need to continue to cleaning.
. So then we see in verse six, he says, I
will not be afraid of a thousand people
who have taken up their stand against me.
On every side.
He woke up in confidence, knowing
that no matter how many people, no
matter how many circumstances to seem
to be weighed against him in that
moment, that he would not be afraid.
You know, I, I would like to
say as a man, I'm not afraid of.
But I'm, I'm getting as I get older.
Yeah.
I'm, I'm more afraid
of big roller coasters.
I don't like those.
Um, I'm really afraid of snakes,
so never let me see a snake or
all scream like a little girl.
And there's a lot of circumstances where
I'm afraid, but I don't tell people
because I feel like it's not manly.
And there's sometimes you guys
may feel afraid and you feel
like it's not Christian to
tell people that you're afraid.
Did you know that?
It's it's okay.
At times that feel afraid.
And to wonder if it's gonna work
out, is God gonna come through it's
at times we wonder that, but this
is where we have to remind ourselves
of the truth that God gives us.
David woke up and it didn't matter
if there was a thousand men outside
of him, he could stand up against
them because God was his shield.
We too, can wake up with that
confidence, despite things like
this, despite wondering if we're
gonna make it financially, despite
wondering if the job you're working
is going to ever get better.
Despite wondering if that one person
in your life is going to betray
you stop wondering if the negative
thoughts that you have about yourself
is gonna tear you down again.
Stop wondering if, if you'll just
make the right decisions, are
you gonna make a mistake again?
You fill in the blank, despite all
those thousands of things around you,
you do not have to be afraid of people.
Of the enemy of any
circumstance around you.
And that's why I remind myself of second
Timothy one seven over and over again for
God has not given you a spirit of fear,
but of power and love and sound judgment.
Guys, I talk so much about what
God has given us, but you need
to write this down somewhere.
God has not given you.
Not giving you a spirit of fear.
So when you worry, when you fear,
when you wonder what somebody
thinks of you or what they don't
think of you, it doesn't matter.
God has not given that to you and
you need to repeat it to yourself so
that you do not let the enemy win.
And this is where it gets great.
This is where it gets great, because I
believe at this point David's standing up.
He's standing up because God sustained
him when he slept and he's awake and he's
standing up and he's like, I don't care.
If there's a thousand people
around me, I'm not gonna be afraid.
I'm gonna take my stand against them.
And this is the fun part he says in
verse seven, rise up, Lord, save me.
My God, man.
That's good.
I needed to hear that.
Rise up, Lord, save me.
My God guys.
That's not something you
just pray at salvation.
That's something that we
have to pray every day.
We have to believe every day that
the Lord rises up and that he
saves us from the self defeating.
Talk to the enemies around us, to the,
the circumstances that we have around
us, because my God can defeat my enemies.
David had so much confidence that
God could defeat his enemies.
What did he say?
He even told God how to do it.
He says, you strike all my
enemies on the cheek and you
break the teeth of the wicked.
See, David begin to remember, let's
go back to the last section here.
David begin to remember.
He is visually seen God use him and
his army to do this exact same thing.
To strike his enemies on the cheek
and to break the teeth of the.
David is not thinking of something new.
He's really just remembering
what God has already done.
And he's just telling God to do it again.
Just do it again.
Lord rise up and defeat my enemies.
This is a great time to just get honest.
What enemies are you facing right now?
What are you struggling with?
I'd love for a couple people to share.
What circumstances around you are
you dealing with, who wants to share.
Negative thoughts.
Amen.
Sister, what else?
What are you struggling with?
And I'm glad nobody's
struggling around here.
Absolutely.
Wondering if it's ever gonna end.
Yeah, absolutely.
What else?
Sleep?
Yes.
What else?
What enemies, what circumstances
are you facing right now that you're
asking the Lord to rise up and defeat?
Yes.
Consistency in your faith.
Guys here's here's, here's what I would
challenge you with, cuz I know you guys
probably are a lot like me in class.
You don't wanna give the wrong
answer, but then, uh, usually the
professor says there's no wrong
answers until you give the wrong
answer, but there isn't wrong answer.
So here's my challenge for you,
cuz I know you didn't engage in all
that as much, much as I wanted to,
but there is something in your life
that you need to give over to God
and ask God to rise up and defeat.
The enemy, the circumstance in your life.
He, he has promised to provide
for David to defeat those enemies.
And he will for you, you need to start
thinking about what is in your life
for God to rise up and defeat, because
you may think it's too big for God.
And God's gonna say, Uhuh, there's
nothing too big or too small for me
to take and to rise up and to save
you from whatever enemy circumstance.
And I know this there's many of you that
have seen God provide for you in the past.
And I challenge you to write those
things down, put them up on your
fridge to remember when you are having
difficult circumstances to think back
on, to know that God will fight for
you, that God will rise up and save you.
And I love verse eight.
He says salvation.
And in other words for
our salvation is victory.
Victory belongs to the Lord.
May your blessings be on all your people?
Salvation and victory belongs to the Lord.
David reminded himself and us
that true victory is found in God.
Can I go a step further?
Because in this time, Jesus, wasn't there.
True victory is found in Jesus.
God.
So loved you.
He was so compassionate about
you, that he knew you couldn't
make it without Jesus being sin.
So he is sin Jesus for you to fight for
you to claim victory for you in your
circumstances against all of your enemies.
That's what he has come to do.
That's why we come every Sunday to remind
ourselves who God is, so that we can go
and we can live that and experience that.
And we can help others experience that.
And I'm so thankful that David
wrote this song because I'm not
the only one that struggles.
I'm not the only one that
feels like there's thousands
of enemies all around me.
I'm not the only one that has
difficult circumstances in my life.
And David has given me
the example to follow.
See, I started writing this section of
the message and I listen to music a lot
of times when I write messages and this
song came on and I love how God divinely
intervenes with music, I love music.
Um, and this is, this is the
song and I'm not gonna sing it
cuz you guys would be horribly.
Yeah.
So it's, it's called see a victory.
And so he says this, this is the song.
I'm not gonna sing all of it, but
it says the weapon may be formed.
But it won't prosper when the
darkness falls, it won't prevail.
Cause the God I serve
knows only how to triumph.
My God will never fail.
Oh my God will never fail.
He says, I'm gonna sing a victory.
He says, I'm gonna see a
victory for the battle.
Belongs to you, Lord.
I'm gonna see a victory.
I'm gonna see a victory for
the battle belongs to you.
Lord.
There's no power.
Excuse me.
There is power in the
mighty name of Jesus.
Every war he wages, he will win.
I'm not backing down from any giant.
Look at that reference to David
cuz I know how this story ends.
Yes.
I know how this story ends.
I'm gonna see a victory.
Come on.
For the battle belongs to you, Lord.
And I'm gonna just jump down here.
He says, you take what the enemy meant
for evil and you turn it for good.
You turn it for good.
You take what the enemy meant
for evil and you turn it to good.
These are the promises that we take with
us today into the battles that we are
facing and the enemies we are FAK facing.
Guys, I don't know what you're walking
through and this may be for me.
So I'll go home and say, thank you, Lord.
and you guys take it for whatever
it's worth, because I know this
message was important for me.
I needed to see that my God fights
for me, even when I'm sleeping, that
my God fights for me, even when the
circumstances that I'm dealing with,
you may not deal with, but it's okay
because we're on the same team and we
battle together and we work together.
What's holding you back from keeping
the faith, despite your circumstances.
I wanna give you a visual
image before we close today.
This is where David started.
He was desperate.
God, my enemies are all around me.
God.
They say there's no help
in you, but God I know.
Gotta know, you're faithful.
I know you're good.
You hear my prayers?
God, I sleep and I wake
up and you sustain me.
God.
I realize no matter how many enemies,
no matter how many circumstances
that I face you are my shield
rise up, Lord.
Rise up, Lord, save me.
Be my victory.
See David's story gives me the
confidence to keep the faith.
Despite my circumstances, I pray
that David's story gives you
the confidence, despite your
circumstances to keep the faith.
He was a man after God's own heart.
He made mistakes and had consequences.
He had tough battles and he
faced enemies all around him.
Yet he kept his faith.
He rejected the lies that
there was no help for him.
And he moved from tears and
defeat to praise and victory.
God has not given us a spirit of fear.
And I want you to leave out with that
today to run with confidence that
Jesus gives us through salvation and.
you know, as you've already seen today,
this message is deep and dear to my heart,
God has shown up over and over again.
He wants to show up more, but my desire
is that God show up in your life,
God desires to do more through you
and me than we can thank or imagine.
And I'm just gonna start speaking
over the next couple of months.
God is ready to do something in this.
not just this location, even
though I think that's part of it.
His people, everyone that's here today.
God is ready to do something through you.
And it's gonna start today that we let
all those things that, so hold us back.
We get rid of them.
We put our foot down and we turn
towards Jesus and we proclaim victory.
We start getting involved.
We start giving, we start
serving, we start inviting people.
We start serving our community.
Like we've never done.
And we share the love and hope of Jesus
and the same thing we experience today,
because there are so many people out
around us that need to experience.
Amen.
So what's stopping you
from experiencing that.
I don't know.
And this is why we have a ton of in.
A time of invitation is for you
to seek the Lord and ask, what
is it that's holding me back.
What is it that I need to proclaim
victory over today for some of you
that really truly could be salvation.
Cuz David had a relationship with God
and that's what gave him victory, but
you can't have victory without salvation.
So if you've never given your life to
Jesus, today is the day of salvation.
Today is the day of victory over defeat.
Over sin.
So if you have questions about
what it means to give your
life to Jesus, come see me.
I'm gonna hang out in the back to an
invitation right after service, but God
is ready to defeat the sin in your life.
What is it that you need
to take next steps in?
If you've already given your life
to Jesus, for some of you, it
could be baptism for some of you.
It could be membership for some of you.
It could just be getting more involved
in your community, your neighborhood
sharing Jesus, showing the love of Jesus.
I don't know what it is, but you do.
So ask the Lord to give you the
faith to take that next step.
And here's the cool part.
We're a church that works together.
So if you need help to take that
next step, that's what I'm here for.
That's what Brittney's here for.
That's what all of us are here for.
So come and say, Hey, I
wanna take a next step.
If you don't know what it is, come, we
can talk about it and figure that out.
But God is doing something
in our city, in our church.
I want you to be a part of it.
I wanna be a part of it.
And today is a day that we get to put
our foot in the sand and start claiming
victory and experience it today in.
Let me challenge you with this.
Faith is seen what God sees, even
though you don't see it today, maybe
you need to proclaim faith in something
that you haven't seen in your life.
Haven't seen in this city, that one day
you'll experience with your physical eyes.
And you'll get to remember when you
prayed and solve victory before you
actually physically saw victory.
I hope that made sense, but today, if
you need Jesus, come see me the day.
If you need to take a next step
in your faith, do it during this
time of invitation, give it to.
Give it to God.
Jesus.
We love you.
God, you are good.
God, this Psalm is so good.
The day we are claiming victory
over the areas of our lives.
Lord, where we have had defeat.
Lord, I give it over to you, Lord.
I repent.
I give over any fear and any struggle
that I've dealt with Lord, I prayed
that each person in this room, Lord,
that they begin to give over into.
The things that they need to give
over to you, Lord the fear or
the sin or the struggle or the
defeat or the, whatever it is.
Lord, I pray that every person in
this room begins to do that today.
Lord, I pray that they are leaving
outta here, renewed in their faith.
Lord, I pray that if there is someone in
this room that doesn't know you, Lord,
that today will be the day of salvation
and they can celebrate with you and your
angels in heaven who are celebrating
over one sin who repent Lord, give them
the faith to say yes to their next.
God, we all need the faith from you.
Renew us today in Jesus name.
Amen.